---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E4: Progress in Programming Report"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-11-17
published: true
labels:
  - Information Technology
---

## My programming skills have greatly improved in the following ways:

My programming skills have undergone significant improvement through various experiences. Completing Assignment 1 marked a pivotal moment in my coding journey, signifying substantial progress. As I navigated through the modules, tasks that were once challenging became more manageable, and I developed a better grasp of troubleshooting errors. Despite still relying on online resources for unfamiliar concepts, I enhanced my ability to locate and apply information effectively. The realization prompted by advice from upperclassmen encouraged me to improve code comprehension through thoughtful comments.

## I need to work on the following to improve my programming skills:

Identifying areas for improvement became evident during Assignment 1. My initial assumptions about the task proved inaccurate, highlighting shortcomings in my understanding of server-side processing. With limited time, I sought assistance from both peers and ChatGPT, successfully completing the assignment but realizing the need to strengthen my grasp of server-related concepts. Additionally, I acknowledged the importance of enhancing typing skills to bolster both speed and accuracy, recognizing the mechanical aspect's impact on coding proficiency.

## I have learned a lot from doing WODs and I can do them without copying the screencast:.

While I have learned significantly from the WODs, anticipating the completion of future exercises without relying on screencasts may require occasional refreshers for specific nuances. Despite enjoying the challenges posed by the WODs, proficiency varied based on my familiarity with the concepts at hand, exposing areas that required further study.

## The labs have helped me learn and I am able to complete them with confidence:

The labs played a pivotal role in my learning journey, providing valuable insights into new concepts. The knowledge gained from each lab proved instrumental in subsequent tasks, such as WODs and Assignment 1. Challenges arose during independent portions, mainly due to gaps in understanding specific concepts, emphasizing the importance of thorough preparation, including readings and screencasts.

## I learned a lot from my experience doing Assignment 1 and feel ready to work on Assignment 2:

Assignment 1 served as a transformative experience, demonstrating the complexity and rewards of coding, particularly in the realm of CSS. The process, though challenging, was rewarding, and I gained a newfound appreciation for the intricacies of CSS. Feeling ready for Assignment 2, I recognized the importance of not underestimating the workload to avoid potential struggles in future assignments.

## I think the class can be improved to help my learning in the following ways:

I really don't think there are any other ways to improve my learning. Professor Sal has been offering many office hours and assisting as many students as possible which is very valuable to not only me but for all ITM students. 

## What helps me the most in class are (WODs, Labs, class website, screencasts, readings, quizzes, 1 on 1 help, working with classmates, etc.):

Collaboration with classmates and exposure to their code, along with guidance from upperclassmen, emerged as the most beneficial aspects of the class. The intuitive flow from screencasts to labs, WODs, and assignments contributed significantly to my understanding of coding concepts. Working alongside peers strengthened my knowledge and coding skills, proving instrumental in my overall learning experience.

