---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E5: Reflecting on Assignment 2 Technical Essay"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-12-14
published: true
labels:
  - Information Technology
---

## Assignment 2:

Assignment 2 showcases a robust login page that seamlessly integrates with the user_data.json file to validate username and password entries. In the event of a mismatch, a validation message is communicated, hindering the ability to proceed with the "purchase" of an item. Upon successful login, the purchasing process becomes persistent, allowing for seamless progression.

This assignment has significantly enhanced my understanding of app.post functionality and the broader implications of utilizing a "POST" method. Exploring various approaches to implement functions has provided valuable insights, particularly in identifying optimal usage scenarios.

Although I worked independently, engagement in study sessions proved instrumental in gaining valuable perspectives from peers. The Registration page presented a notable challenge as it was not integrated into the user_data.json file, causing complications in the registration process despite the fully operational login page. Seeking assistance from classmates, previous course takers, the professor, the TA, and friends became a consistent practice to overcome hurdles and deepen my comprehension.

This assignment marked a departure from the predominantly client-side focus of Assignment 1, emphasizing server-side tasks involving the manipulation and interaction of JSON files. While Assignment 1 centered on validation and visual aesthetics, Assignment 2 demanded a more intricate understanding of server-side processes.

Reflecting on the development process, approximately 20% of my effort went into conceptualizing the code, while the actual coding accounted for 30%, leaving the majority, 50%, for rigorous testing and debugging.

The familiarity with the existing codebase from Assignment 1 streamlined variable declaration and additions. Conversely, Assignment 2 posed challenges due to a lack of clear guidance and prior knowledge, leading to frequent pauses, extensive communication with others, and experimentation with diverse code snippets.

In hindsight, dedicating more time to research server-side processes beyond the assigned readings and modules would have been beneficial. While I did engage with the provided materials, additional independent research could have better prepared me for the complexities encountered during the assignment.



